MARIN benchmark case
================================

The problem consists of a 0.55 m column of water, initially at rest, that collapses under the action of gravity and 
impacts a stationary object. The computational domain is a rectangular box with dimensions 3.22m x 1m x 1m. 
The object has dimensions 0.161m x 0.161m x 0.403m and is placed at the back end of the tank. 
For more details, see runfiles or references.

Preprocessing
--------------------------------
No postprocessing is necessary for running this case. 
To be able to run hexahedral elements the single-purpose marinMesh mesh-generator needs to be compiled.
This is part of the mprans default build sequence, so one can assume this utility is available.

The first lines of marin.py the discretion and formulation can be chosen by modifying the following lines.

 - Refinement = 2              ==>  Controls the global level or refinement  e.g. 5 ==> 32x16x16     
 - spaceOrder = 1 / 2          ==>  Choose linear or quadratic elements
 - useHex     = True / False   ==>  Choose hexahedral or tetrahedral elements
 - useRBLES   = 0.0 / 1.0      ==>  Choose SUPG  (0.0) or RBLES/VMS (1.0) for stabilizing the Navier-Stokes equations
 - useMetrics = 0.0 / 1.0      ==>  Choose h-based (0.0) or metric based (1.0) numerical parameters

Running
--------------------------------
The benchmark can be run using the following command:

::
  mpirun -n #NP parun marin_so.py -l 3 -v -O petsc.options -D lin_tet_3

where #NP stand for the number of processors. The final argument, which specifies the output directory, is optional. 


Postprocessing
--------------------------------
For extracting point wise pressure and waterheights at certain location in the tank 2 separate pvpython scripts are
supplied in $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts. To be able to run the scripts pvpython needs to be installed. This is a special 
python shipped with paraview. Furthermore, the scripts assumed there is one master xmf file.  This master xmf file 
can be generated by running the following command in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
    
  $PROTEUS/proteusModule/scripts/gatherArchives.py -s #NP -f marin_p  

This will generate a file marin_p_all#NP.xmf which can be used for extracting pressures and heights by running 
the following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::

  $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts/marinExtractPressure.py -f marin_p_all#NP.xmf
  $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts/marinExtractHeight.py   -f marin_p_all#NP.xmf

This will produce the files pressure.txt and height.txt that contain the pressure and height time series.
Experimental reference data is provided by the files ?????

For visualizing purposes it might be beneficial to repackage the xmf/h5 solution files. 
There are three distinct reasons/benefits to do this:

1) The script allows skipping time steps and only extracts variable deemed important, 
   thereby greatly reducing the file size and hence the time to copy data form remote location.
2) In the resulting solution files every time step has a distinct solution file, 
   which allows visualization of results while the simulation is still running.
3) The scripts also outputs VTK files which allows visualization with VisIt (and others). 

Repackaging of the solution can be done by running the following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
  
  $PROTEUS_MPRANS/scripts/extractSolution.py -f ../marin_p -s #start -e #end -i #incr -n #NP  

where #start end #end are the begin and end timestep number and #incr is a increment time step (aka stride) and #NP is again the number of processors.

For convenience all the postprocesing mentioned above are lumped in a simple script. This script can be run using  
following commands in the directory containing the xmf/h5 solution files.

::
   postpro.sh


References
--------------------------------
K. Kleefsman, G. Fekken, A. Veldman, B. Iwanowski, B. Buchner
"A volume-of-fluid based simulation method for wave impact problems"
Journal of Computational Physics 206 (2005) 363–393.

C. E. Kees, I. Akkerman, M. W. Farthing and Y. Bazilevs
“A Conservative Level Set Method for Variable-Order Approximations and Unstructured Meshes ”
Journal of Computational Physics, 230-12(2011) 3402-3414,  doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2011.02.030

I. Akkerman, Y. Bazilevs, C. E. Kees and M. W. Farthing
“Isogeometric Analysis of Free-Surface Flow”
Journal of Computational Physics, 230-11(2011)  4137-4152,  doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2010.11.044